Now that we worked on our code in the last lecture,
let's now add
express, so a framework for nodejs to make nodejs development easier. For this I'll quit my nodejs
server here and I will install express with npm by running npm install --save to store an entry
in the package.json file express,
that is the name of the package, the express package. Let's hit enter and this will now download express
and add it to our project.
Now I will add the express app and all the files that belong to it in the backend folder now and we'll
start real simple by adding an app.js file.
Now this app.js file will hold the express app which is still a nodejs server side app, just
well taking advantage of these express features. To take advantage,
we first of all need to import express and you know how that works,
feel free to do it on your own,
we create a new constant, name it express for example and then use require and then express, so the
name of the package,
this now is not a package shipping with node but the package we just installed with npm.
So now we got express installed,
we want to use express of course and one way of using it is to for example quickly add one such route
as it is called,
so handling a request for a single special path only. We do this by first of all creating express app,
I'll name this app and storing it as a constant because I won't change it
and then we just execute that express package basically or whatever we imported from there,
we execute this as a function and it will return us an express app.
This app can now be used and the important thing about an express app is it actually is just a big chain
of middlewares
we apply to the incoming requests,
so like a funnel through which we send that express and every part of that funnel or in that funnel we have
different parts and every part can do something with the request, manipulate it, read values from it or
do something with the response like send a response.
So we will add such a middleware here with app and then the use keyword, this simply well uses a new
middleware on our app and on the incoming request. The middleware function, the use function here in its
simplest form takes a function which is executed for an incoming request and that function takes three
arguments, request and response just like nodejs did
but also a next function. This next function has one important purpose,
if you execute it in here like this, then the request will actually continue its journey, so if I copy this
for example and I add one other middleware after the first one, then we could console log something
here like first middleware
and in the second middleware, we could do something with the response, so the first one of course is useless,
just showing the middleware concept.
So in that second middleware, I'm not calling next which means after this middleware, the request won't
continue traveling down that file and reaching other middlewares and the only thing I want to do here to
not let's it go into the void and therefore time out is I will send back a response because the client
which sent the request is of course waiting for such a response.
We do that with the response object here
but this now actually is a different object
than in nodejs, it's more powerful,
for example it has a send method and this allows us to send back a response easily like hello from
express. This will also implicitly end the response writing stream and will simply just well return
that response and set the right headers,
so everything for us.
So it sends back this response for an incoming request and the only thing we now need to do is we need
to wire up this very simple express app with our server here where we of course are listening to
incoming requests,
se want to use that app as a listener so to say. Now to export this app,
we don't use the export keyword like this,
instead just like imports that work a bit differently,
exports work also different.
We have the module object which has an exports object and we register what we want to export
in this exports object as a value so to say.
So here I want to export the entire express app,
this one here and this will not just export this constant but also all the middlewares we attach
to it.
By the way in case you're wondering, this is a constant because we never override the values stored in
app,
it's always this express app but we can then use this express app to register new middlewares,
this is not changing the value of this constant,
this is why we can use a constant here. Then we're exporting the app,
now we just need to import it in server.js and there, I will add a new constant, app,
the name is up to you and I will require
and now it has to be a path to our app.js
file, a relative path, so it's ./backend app like this.
Now I want to use that app as a listener for incoming requests and all that has to be done for that
is I pass it to create server,
so there I simply pass app.
Now one other thing is important, before I do that, I will tell express on which port we're working,
so I will call app set to set a configuration for my express environment and I want to set the configuration
for the port key, a reserved key
express knows basically and there I will set this port, now to not reuse the code, I'll simply
add a new constant, port here, store that code in there and then use that port constant here
and also down there in the listener which we still need to start. With that, I got my express app set
up and connected and what we should see is that
now if I restart my node server, we actually see hello from express and this log here in this console
log, if we go back to localhost 3000 and reload
and indeed, here we see hello from express
and in the log we see first middleware and this proves
well the fact that both middleware is executed and if you want, you can comment out this next call in
the first middleware, restart the node server by quitting it and then re-running it,
that's important because we change the server side code
and then if I reload,
well we actually see it's loading infinitely here,
it will actually timeout after a few seconds or after a minute because we're not returning a response.
We get first middleware here but then it's stuck because we're not calling next,
hence the request is not allowed to continue,
it's not reaching this middleware
but we're also not sending a response here
and therefore it will timeout at some point of time.
Now I will simply quit the server to cancel this but this is why it's important to call next
if you're not sending a response. Now with that, our express app is added, now let's do some refinements
to our server before we actually start adding some logic which we can target from within our angular
app.